Good morning.
I'm Eric Dudiak.
I am a Source Control Engineer on Xcode.
And today we're going to talk about
Source Control Management in Xcode.
So just to give you a brief agenda of
what we're going to talk about today,
we're going to give you a brief
overview of the fundamentals
of source control management.
Then we're going to talk about
committing in Xcode and how you
get your code committed into
your source control repository.
and finally we're going to
talk about sharing your code,
whether that's around the world
or just around your office.
So first off,
what is Source Control Management?
Source Control Management,
or SCM for short,
is all about two different things:
collaboration and backup.
So collaboration means that you
can work around the world with
your code and share it with other
users that need your code as well.
And backup,
in that you have the ability to go
back in time and see previous commits
you've made to your code and find out
how your code has changed over time.
This is a great way to fix any bugs
that might come up in your code when
you know that you have a working
version already in Source Control.
So that's SCM.
So in Xcode,
we support two different source
control management systems.
These are Subversion and Git.
is a source control management system
that is based on a client-server model.
In this case, you have a server,
your repository,
that stores all of your code.
Locally on your system,
you have a working copy.
This stores what code
you're working on right now.
Whenever you want to see
a past piece of code,
something that you've done in the past,
you're going to have to talk to the
server and pull that copy down from
the server whenever you do a log
operation or anything like that.
This means that every client
who is using your code is
connected to the same server.
Now, Git works a little bit differently.
Under Git, Git is a distributed
source control system.
This means that your local copy of your
code is actually a full repository.
The advantage of this is that
when you're on an airplane or
otherwise out of network access,
you actually can pull up every revision
of the file that you've locally stored
without ever needing to go to a server.
Now, of course, if you want to keep your
code on another machine,
such as a server,
Git has this concept of remotes.
A remote is basically another
Git source code repository that
is not locally on your machine.
This could be on one of
your coworkers' machines,
it could be on a server,
or it could be somewhere else on the web,
such as GitHub.
It's very flexible this way.
So, source control in Xcode has a
few great features that we're
going to talk about today.
And there's a lot of ways to
use source control in Xcode just
in your day-to-day workflows,
such as when you're editing code.
We're also going to show you how you
can use Source Control Management in
Xcode to view the history of your file.
This can help you quickly
find bugs and squash them.
And finally,
we're going to talk about managing
repositories in Xcode and how you can set
up your repositories and add any settings
you might need to for Xcode to work
most efficiently with your repository.
So this is the Xcode workspace window.
Here we see on the left that some
of these files have been modified.
We know that because if
we look at the screen,
On the left-hand side,
we see the workspace view,
which shows us several
files with M status icons.
These M status icons indicate
that the file has been modified.
and David We have several
source control status icons.
These indicate whether a file is added,
deleted, or any number of other source
control statuses that we might
need to show you in Xcode.
Now, if we want to look at
the history of your file,
we're going to use
Xcode's Version editor.
If we go to the toolbar in Xcode,
there are several
editor modes at the top.
This is currently showing
the normal editor.
To get to the Version editor,
is the editor of the Xcode team.
He's the editor of the Xcode team.
Eric Dudiak is the
editor of the Xcode team.
He's the editor of the Xcode team.
Now, when we're in the Version editor,
we have three different
views to see our code.
The first is the Comparison view.
The Comparison view shows you two
pieces of source code side by side.
In this case,
we're looking at the local revision,
on the left side,
and the historic revision on the right.
Now,
we can throw any two arbitrary revisions.
In this case,
we've selected one that we've made
modifications to locally and the
current top of trunk on the repository.
Now, if we wanted to look
at a different version,
such as one more in the past,
and compare it to a version after it,
we could.
We can see any number of versions
of a file next to each other and
see all the changes between them.
If we want to see more information about
when lines of a file were last changed,
we can use the Blame view.
Now the blame view allows you to
basically blame someone for a particular
line of code because you can see
who was the last person to touch it.
In this case,
we show the blame items next to
each line of code on the right,
as well as an indicator that
darkens to show that that
was the most recent commit.
So the more recent a commit,
the darker the line.
So if you know a bug was
introduced really recently,
you're going to look for the darkest
lines next to each line of code.
And then you can find the person
who actually committed that code
that you found is actually a bug.
Finally, in the Version editor,
we have the Log view.
Now, the Log view shows you the history
of the file with every commit,
one after the other,
shows you the commit message,
as well as some other information that
we'll see in a minute during the demo.
Now,
when it comes to managing repositories,
we also have a great tool
in Xcode to facilitate this.
And we find it in the Organizer.
The Xcode Organizer can be
accessed from the toolbar of
Xcode using the Organizer button.
In this case,
we'll bring up the organizer,
and one of the organizer views that
we have is the repository view.
In this case,
we see the WebKit repository,
and we can see several parts of it.
If we want to see the top
level of the repository,
we can go to the root
folder seen on the left,
We can also see the trunk.
Now, in Subversion,
the trunk is basically
your main line of code.
So if we want to see just the current
main line of code in the repository,
we can use the trunk view.
We also support branches and tags.
We're going to talk a little bit
more about branches in a minute.
And then any local copies
of that code are shown with
blue folders in the sidebar.
So in this case, we have a checkout of
WebKit locally on this machine,
as well as some information
about the repository.
Now in this case,
we are looking at the main
view of the repository.
We see the location of it,
and it's a Subversion repository.
If we needed a username or password,
this is where we would go to enter it,
although Xcode will also prompt you if
you need to do a source control operation
that requires a username or password.
For Subversion repositories,
it is also necessary to set up tags,
branches, and trunk folders
and their relative locations
from the root of the repository.
You may not necessarily need to do this
for your repository if you only want
to check out and commit to a trunk.
However,
if you want branching support in Xcode,
for Subversion,
we are going to need the relative
path to the branches folder.
Now, what does that necessarily mean?
Well, in Subversion, there are several
different common setups,
and we're going to show
you two of them right now.
So one of the most common is that
at the top level of your repository,
you have three folders: trunk, branches,
tags.
So that's what we saw in the
WebKit repository on the last screen.
Three folders,
so all the relative paths are just trunk,
branches, and tags.
But if you have several
projects in your repository,
you may actually have a
slightly different setup.
In this case,
you might have more than one project,
and each one has its own trunk, branches,
and tags folders.
So if we had checked out project
one from the second repository,
we would have put in project one/trunk,
project one/branches,
and project one/tags as our trunk,
branches, and tags folders.
You may, of course,
have a completely different
Subversion repository setup.
That's perfectly acceptable.
Your mileage may vary from
these two common setups.
So let's go in and do a quick
demo of some of the source
control features of Xcode.
Okay, so here we see a workspace.
This happens to again
be the WebKit workspace.
And I can see that I have
modified a couple of files.
In this case, I can see three.
Now, I might have modified a few more.
So if I want to see every
file that I've modified,
I might go down to the bottom here.
And we see the filter bar.
We can, of course, filter by name,
but in this case,
I want to filter and see just
files that have source control
status icons next to them.
If I click the repository icon,
shown here as a safe,
I can show only files with
source control status.
So clicking that shows that, indeed,
I have only modified three files locally.
So this is great when
working with a few files,
and you know that you're working on the
same files a lot in a larger repository,
and they've all been modified on disk.
Let's undo that because we're
going to look at a few files.
So I want to see the whole workspace.
So if I want to see some of these changes
I've been making to the WebKit project,
because I don't want to break
anyone's iPhone's web browser,
let's see what kind of fun I've been
having in the Canvas support of WebKit.
So let's look at the
Canvas rendering context 2D.
So in this case, I see the file,
and I'm not really sure what
I've been messing around with.
So if I want to see what edits I've made,
I could, of course, go to Commit,
but I want to see them right
here in the Xcode editor.
So I'm going to go up to the toolbar
and select the Version editor.
Now, in this case,
I see all the changes that I've made.
On the right side, we see the current
version on the repository.
We know it's the current version
because if you're not familiar
with Subversion terminology,
this one is called the base and head.
Base is going to be the local
version on disk that's the
newest since I've updated,
and head is going to be the
top version -- or the latest
version on the repository.
So it's both.
That means it is actually
the most up-to-date version
that has been committed.
On the left, we see my local revision.
My local revision is the
changes that I have made that
have not been committed yet.
And given that it's code
I've just been messing with,
probably shouldn't be
committed to WebKit.
So we can see a few changes.
If I want to find all
the changes in the file,
I can simply use the scroll bar,
and we see that they're indicated
with red lines in the scroll bar,
and I can jump right to them.
One of the great things about the
Version editor is that in addition
to allowing me to see the changes,
it's actually a full functioning editor.
So I can start typing code
right here in the editor.
And we see that as I was editing code,
a difference actually
appeared in real time.
And if I add a bunch of white space,
that all appears as I'm typing.
This is a great way that
if you're editing code,
you can see exactly what you've
edited recently in a file that
hasn't yet been committed.
So I'm going to look at another file.
Let's look at the Canvas Gradient file.
Now,
I haven't touched any of this code yet.
We see that there's no M status icon.
But I think that there might be something
going on here that's changed recently.
So I can see that this is
the last version that was
committed on September 12th,
last year.
If I want to see what was
committed on September 12th,
I'm going to go to the blame view.
Now we change views of the
Version editor down here on the right,
and I click the blame icon.
Now this is going to go out to our
Subversion repository and get the
status of every line of the file
and when it was last committed.
Here I see a few different commits,
and I can see exactly when
each line was changed.
So if I was interested in this
#if enable dashboard support,
I could see that that was committed.
That was actually the
commit from September 12th.
Now, if I click on the info icon,
I can actually get more
information about this commit.
We see that it highlights
the line I was interested in,
as well as other lines in the file
that were part of that same commit.
So if we scroll through,
we see that it wasn't
just a single line commit,
of course.
Several other things
in this file changed.
This is a great way, if I'm fixing a bug,
to find out not only the area of code
that I'm interested in that I think
is directly relevant to the bug,
but also other code that I may
need to look at because it was
committed at the same time and may
be related and also need some tweaks.
Now, of course, this is going to show us
some more information.
Here we see there was the
username that committed it.
In this case, it was just part of the
commit queue from WebKit.
the date it was committed,
the revision number,
as well as the full commit
message of that commit.
Now, if you're working on a bug and
you find it on a single line
in a project or a few lines,
and you find the commit that
it was committed as part of,
you may not just need to
look at that particular file.
The bug may span multiple files,
but it's most likely in
one or a few commits.
So I may be interested in other files
that were also part of this commit.
In this case, we see that three files
changed during this commit.
If I expand this disclosure triangle,
I can see that the header file,
a change log, and this particular file
were all part of that commit.
So if I'm editing an implementation file,
I probably also want to see
what changed in the header file.
If I click the file,
we see a sheet come down that
shows us exactly what the view
was when this commit was made.
In this case,
the file before the commit on the
right and the file immediately
after the commit on the left.
as well as each change highlighted,
and a commit message at the bottom.
So, okay, I can see what was changed.
I can see what was changed in the header,
as well as the implementation file,
if I was interested in undoing
the enable dashboard support.
So now let's look at how we
set up this WebKit repository.
So I'm going to now go to the organizer.
In this case,
I have a few repositories set up
that I've been working with recently.
And in this case,
one of them is the WebKit repository.
I can go and look at the root
level of the WebKit repository,
in this case, as trunk, branches, tags.
I can see trunk, branches, tags.
It would seem that the
WebKit repository might be being
a little slow this morning.
Well, we can look at one of
our other repositories.
So if I look at the engineering repo,
part of a repository that we're
going to see a little bit later,
and we can see a few commits
have been made to it.
In the case of the WebKit one,
we'd see several commits, of course.
We can also set up the
username and password.
Trunk, branches, tags, folders,
as I was saying before.
We can view the root.
So in this case,
I actually haven't set up trunk,
branches, and tags.
So in order to set it up,
I'm just going to type trunk.
Light turns green, and I see that I have
a trunk folder here.
I can jump right to the trunk.
And I'm just going to
add branches and tags.
So in that case,
my repository is now set up,
and I can actually do branching
with the engineer's repo.
In addition, I can look through the logs.
Just like in the blame view,
if I expand the triangle,
I can see what files were
committed as part of that commit,
as well as the commit message.
And again,
clicking on a file will show me that
file committed as well as all the others
as it looked during the commit phase.
Now, if I wanted to view a
particular revision,
I didn't want to scroll through the list.
Let's see if we can get
the WebKit one to work.
I'm going to try to view a
particular revision on here.
Let's say someone sent me an email,
told me to look at this one revision,
and I'm going to look at 13992.
Now, I could just scroll through
the list and find that,
but if I know exactly what
revision I want to go to,
I can jump straight to it,
and Xcode's going to load
that revision and a comparison
view for me of that revision,
just like it would if I had
gone to it through the log view.
But bear with it.
Ah, here we are.
So in this case...
Let's make that a little bigger.
So we see, just like before,
a full comparison view of the code.
We see on the right what was on
the server before the commit,
and on the left what was committed.
So we can see this was
a rather large commit,
and we see that files were deleted.
We can see files were added.
So this was a great way to look through
our commits and find out information and
what the history of our repository is.
So that's the Repository Organizer.
So what have we seen?
So we've seen how you can edit
code in the Version editor,
just like a normal editor,
and how you can use it to see the
changes you've made recently or even
changes you've made in the past.
We see how you can view
the history of a file.
This allows you to find bugs and
make sure that you change everything,
not just the bug you see immediately,
but anything else that might have
been part of that same commit that
also needs to be updated as a result.
And we've seen how you
can manage repositories.
This includes setting up tags, trunk,
and branches folders for
a Subversion repository.
So now I'm going to let Kevin come up
and talk about committing your changes.
Thanks, Eric.
My name is Kevin Lindeman,
and today I'm going to talk
about committing your changes.
So in order to use all the great
features that Eric just showcased,
as well as committing and the rest of
the features we'll talk about today,
You need to actually be managing
your projects with source control.
Now, if you create a new
project inside of Xcode,
we make this extremely easy to do,
and I'll show you how to do that.
I'll also talk about what
is new while committing.
We've added a number of new features
this year that will make your
day-to-day commit workflows even better,
especially if you're working
on multiple tasks all at once.
And then I'll talk about ignoring files.
Now, you might ask, all of my files are
under source control now.
Why would I want to ignore any of them?
Well, there's a number of file types
that you might want to ignore,
so I'll talk about those.
Let's dive right into source
control for new projects.
As I said, you need to manage your
projects with source control
in order to use these features.
When you create a new
project inside of Xcode,
when you get to the save dialogue,
you'll see this check box.
Create local Git repository
for this project.
What this means is that Xcode will
create an empty Git repository
and then use the basis of your
new project as your first commit.
Once that's done, you can just go ahead,
make your changes, and commit.
Now that you've got a Git repository,
you might want to configure remotes.
This can be done entirely inside
of the organizer in Xcode.
The remotes, as Eric said,
represent remote Git repositories,
maybe on the same machine,
on a server somewhere, maybe like GitHub.
And now that you've configured a remote,
since in Git all of your
commits are done locally,
you need to push your local changes up
to the remote so that all your coworkers
can then fix the bugs you just committed.
So let's take a look at how to do this.
We see the welcome window in Xcode,
and I'm going to create
a new Xcode project.
I'm going to create an iOS master
detail application and click next.
I'm going to name it
My Awesome Application.
and click next.
Now we see here we have the check box,
create local Git repository
for this project.
And since I want to Git repository,
I'm going to leave that
enabled and click create.
And now Xcode has
opened this new project,
and all of my work is
now under source control.
I can confirm this by
going into the organizer.
We see that Xcode has automatically
detected the Git repository that
was created for this project.
If I click it, we see the initial commit.
And all of the files that
are part of that new project.
So now that I have this Git repository,
I want to set up a remote.
So I'll click remotes.
We see that I don't have
any remotes set up yet.
And so I'll go to Safari where
I've already set up a
Git repository on GitHub.
Now I'll copy the URL of the remote and
go back into Xcode and click add remote.
Now, a remote is included by a name
and the location to that remote.
So the name is really all what you --
really what you just want to call it.
I'm going to call this one origin
because that's what you tend to call
the first remote in a Git repository.
And I'll paste in that
URL and click create.
And now Xcode has added the
origin remote to my repository.
So now let's go back to the workspace,
because I want to push
these changes up to GitHub,
so that all my coworkers can
start working on our project.
So I will go to File, Source Control,
Push.
And so we see that since
I just created this repository
and it has a master branch,
but I haven't pushed yet to the remote,
it doesn't exist there yet.
So it will tell me that it will
create this branch when I push.
Since I want this, I will click push.
We see that the push was successful.
And now, if I go back to Safari...
reload this page,
we see my project is now on GitHub.
So what did we talk about again?
We talked about placing your
project under source control and
how Xcode makes this extremely easy.
I then talked about configuring remotes,
in this case GitHub,
so that you can now collaborate
with all of your coworkers.
I then talked about pushing changes
and how when you commit locally,
you need to push them to the remote so
that everyone can then use those commits.
So now I'm going to dive
right into what is new.
First off, this year we have
better change detection.
Xcode is now better at deciding which
lines are different between your current
version and the previous version.
We also now have the ability to
skip or discard individual changes.
We see this little button
here between the two files,
one for each difference.
You may have known about this feature
as part of the Git command line tools
when you're doing an interactive commit.
It gives you finer-grained control
for deciding what you want to
commit inside of a single file.
We now also have the ability to commit to
a new branch directly while committing.
This is great because if you're working
on a large part of your project and you
might be destabilizing your code base,
you want all that work on a branch.
But maybe you forgot to create a new
branch before you started working.
You get to the commit sheet and remember,
oh, shoot, I forgot to create a branch.
Well, now you can do that.
So let me talk really quick
about what a branch is.
So here we have a simple Git repository.
We have our master branch.
It has a couple of
When I create a branch in order to work
on the task that I'm about to start,
it also has all the content
of master at that point.
And now I can commit to the branch and
master doesn't have any of that content,
so I won't destabilize everyone else.
But everyone else, including myself,
can also still commit to master
if we have small bug fixes.
Now when I'm done with my branch
and I know I'm not going to
destabilize anything anymore,
I get to then merge
that back in to master,
and now master has all that work as well.
So let's take a look at
this inside of Xcode.
All right.
So we've been working on this project.
It's called My Best Friends.
And let's run it to see what
we've worked on already.
So what we have here
is 16 different tiles.
They look a little bit like WWDC badges.
So what happens if I tap on one of these?
Well,
we see a picture of an Xcode engineer
before they were an Xcode engineer.
That kid's pretty cute.
Now if I click around and
it's not the same person,
they flip back over.
The point of this game is
to match up the same person
But we see there's a couple of
unimplemented features here.
It's supposed to show the
present-day picture of that engineer.
So let's work on this a little bit.
Now we see here that I've already
been doing some work because of these
M status icons on the left here.
Now I know I'm ready to commit
some of this work right now,
so I'm going to go to File,
Source Control, Commit.
The great part about committing inside
of Xcode is that you get this view.
It shows you all the files
that have been changed.
That way,
you know exactly what you need to
commit so that when you do commit,
you don't end up breaking
the build for everyone else.
So if I go over here to this file,
now we see the previous version of this
game was actually a dog matching game.
Now, I don't really want the engineers
to bark when I pair them up,
so I deleted this code.
That change looks good.
And we also see here at
the bottom a new feature.
We have a number 8 down here.
That says that there are
8 changes in this file.
It's also really easy to navigate
through all these changes by using
these arrows on either side of it.
So if I click the right one,
I go to the next change.
And the next change.
And if I click the back arrow, I go back.
So the second change here is also part
of making the engineers stop barking,
so I want that change right now, too.
We see here a couple of
NSLogs for debug information.
I don't want to commit those right now,
so I could simply just edit
the left-hand side here to
look like the right-hand side,
and that change would go away.
Or I could click here
and say discard change.
Now we see here that after
the change is reverted,
I can use undo to restore the change.
So if I hit OK, the change disappears.
If I hit Command Z, the change reappears.
I don't want that,
so I'm going to redo that.
And now I also don't want this change.
So now if you have focus in the
center split bar here and you
have a difference selected as
we can see by the blue outline,
you can also simply hit delete
and it will do the same thing.
Now, if we look down at this change,
this looks like a lot of work.
So I'm not ready to commit this,
but I was ready to commit the code
removal up at the top of this file.
So since they're in the same file,
I would like to disable
just this difference.
I would like to keep it around, however,
so I don't want to revert it.
In order to do that,
I can press this checkbox.
Now it grays out.
This means that this difference will
not be committed when I hit commit,
but it will still be
there when I hit commit.
after the commit is done.
If I select this commit,
I can also do it by
hitting the space bar.
Now I don't want this one either,
so I'm going to disable that.
And now I'm done with this file.
Now this is also removing some
of the AV audio player code in
order to make the engineers bark.
I don't want that.
So I'm going to leave that file checked.
Now this was part of the
code that I disabled,
so I don't want any of this.
Now I need to insert a commit message.
Making the engineers stop barking.
And click Commit.
And now we see the commit has completed,
but I still have two files with
M status badges next to them.
This is because, as I said,
I disabled those differences.
Now I'm actually missing a couple of
the photos down here of the engineers,
so I'm going to insert those in.
Even though there's eight engineers,
I only have four photos.
So Eric's going to put
in some more later.
But I'm going to drag these in.
And since I was writing them
from outside of the project,
I want copy items into destination
groups folder checked because that
will copy them into my Xcode project
and also add them to source control.
So when I click add,
we see the A's next to them.
This means that they're going
to be added when I commit.
So I'm going to go back to File,
Source Control, Commit.
Now we see here,
because I added those files,
the project file has changed.
We see the file that I had
completely unchecked.
And we see all the differences that
I had unchecked inside of the file.
If I go through all of them,
we see those.
Now, while you're committing and
in the regular Version editor,
you don't have to look
at just source code.
You can also look at binary
files such as images.
Hey, that looks like me.
We also see on the right
that the file is added,
so there's no previous version.
So I'm going to write
in a commit message now.
I am adding some new engineer photos.
Thanks, autocorrect.
And now, since I think this code
will destabilize our work,
because I haven't tested it very much,
I'm going to commit this to a branch.
So I'll click Commit to
Branch in the bottom left.
And we see here that my Xcode
project actually had two
repositories associated with it.
An engineer's repository,
which housed all my photos.
It's also Subversion,
as we can see by it being named Trunk.
And then I have my
best friend repository,
which is Git.
So since I don't really need to
branch just for adding a couple of
photos to the Subversion repository,
I'm only going to branch to
my best friend Git repository.
So I'm going to click here
and select new branch.
I'm going to name it New Photos.
And click Create Branch.
Now when I click Commit 7 files,
all of that work will
be put onto the branch.
So now I've committed all
that work into my branch,
and Xcode also automatically
switched us to this branch so that
we could continue working on it.
But I'm ready now for
Eric to finish this work,
so I'm going to push
all this to our remote.
So I'll go do file, source control, push.
And now we see that since I just
created that new photos branch locally,
I need to create it on
the remote when I push it.
So I'll hit push.
and now we have pushed this branch to the
remote so Eric can start working on it.
But you may remember that I was
also working a little bit on the
master branch before I committed
all that to the branch.
So I need to switch back to my
other branch so I can push it.
So I can do that from the
Now if I go down here to the
My Best Friend working copy,
the blue folder,
we see here that the current
branch is that new photos
branch that I just created.
Now I can switch the branch.
We also see here that the commit that
I just did adding some new engineer
photos is listed here in the log
as well as the commit that I did on
master branch before I even switched.
That's because when
I branched from that commit,
it still had all that work as well.
So now I'm going to
switch back to master.
And we see that that commit that I did
only to the branch is not there anymore.
If I go back to branches
and click new photos,
we see it there, but not on master.
So it looks good.
So I'm going to push this work on master.
up to the remote.
And since we'd already
pushed this before,
it doesn't ask me to create it.
It's just going to update the remote.
So I'll click push.
And now we have pushed all
this work up to the remote.
So what did we just go over?
We took a look at the
Version editor inside of Xcode
and its better change detection.
as well as the ability to skip
or discard individual changes.
The best part about this feature is also
that it works for Subversion as well.
And we also talked about how you
can then commit to a new branch.
So the last thing I'm going to be
talking about is ignoring files.
You're going to be asking why.
All of my work is now
under source control.
Why do I need this
certain file as ignored?
Well, not every file that is part of your
project is crucial to your work.
It's not necessarily source files.
So you don't want to always clutter
up the window when you're committing.
You might not also want them cluttering
up your repository when you look
at the files on the repository.
So what files might you want to ignore?
I'll talk about which files
we may want to ignore and how.
I'll also talk about what if
I committed those already,
and how do I fix that?
So what do we want to ignore?
You may consider
ignoring finder settings.
These are stored in the .DS store files.
You may also consider
ignoring window geometry.
These are specific to Xcode
and they are stored in the user
interface to XC user state files.
You may also consider ignoring
private schemes and breakpoints.
These are the ones personal to you.
They're stored in your
usernames.xc user data D files.
So in order to use --
ignore all these files,
you're going to need to
use the command line tools.
Depending on your system configuration,
you may not have them
installed by default.
But they are installed as part
of Xcode in a private location.
In order to access that
version of Git and Subversion,
you can use XCRUN to run those.
You can also use those to run any of
the other Xcode command line tools.
We'll see an example of this in a moment.
So you have a few choices
with ignoring files in Git.
First is per repository.
In order to ignore files per repository,
you place a .gitignore file at
the root of your working copy.
It may look a little something like this.
Here I'm ignoring the DS store file
and the user interface state file.
Just separated by new lines.
You can then commit this file
to the repository and push it,
and now everyone that closes
your -- clones your repository
from the remote will take
advantage of your gitignore file.
If you're like me,
you work with a lot of Git repositories.
You may want to set it up globally.
This will affect every
repository that you clone no
matter where you got it from.
In order to do this,
you can create a .gitignore global
file in your home folder and then
you need to tell Git to use this one.
You can combine this with
the .gitignore file as well.
So in order to tell Git to
use this gitignore file,
you use XCRUN git config
to point to that file.
And here we see XCRUN prepended to
Git so that it will find the one
that's used by Xcode and use that one.
Now, the best way to ignore files
for Subversion is globally.
In order to do that,
you'll edit the .subversion/config
file in your home folder,
and you need to find the
global-ignore setting.
It may be commented out.
And you make it look a
little bit like this.
Here we're ignoring the same two files,
the DSStore and the
userinterface.xcuserstate file.
And they're just separated by
spaces all in the same line.
Once you do that,
Subversion will ignore those files and
you won't see them while committing.
But what if I already
committed these files?
How do I fix this?
This is easiest in the terminal,
where you'll CD to that working
copy that you want to fix.
and you use XCRUN to tell Git or
Subversion to remove those files.
and you'll need to do this for
every file that you want to remove.
Once you've done that,
you need to actually
commit that deletion.
Otherwise, it didn't do anything.
It just did the removal locally.
So you commit the removal.
And then you set up the
ignore files just as I showed.
So in summary,
I talked a little bit about source
control for new projects and how
Xcode makes it easy to create a
Git repository instead of remotes.
Talked about what's new while committing,
especially the great new feature
where you can disable individual
differences in a single file.
And also which files you
may want to ignore and how.
So Eric will come back up and
talk about sharing your code.
So once we've made all these changes,
we're going to want to
share our code so that,
say, if you're going to the
beer bash this afternoon,
one of your coworkers can take care
of any bugs you've just introduced.
So there are a few workflows that
make it easy to work with other
people or even just share code between
multiple computers in your office.
The first step is getting all
of your code locally up to date.
Now, depending on whether you're
using Git or Subversion,
this is either a pull for
Git or an update in Subversion.
Doing this means that you have all
the local code -- or all the code on
the server is now locally up to date.
You may also need to merge some branches.
So Kevin was showing earlier
how to make a branch.
And we're going to need to merge
that in if we're ready to put
that into our mainline code.
Both this and the update operation
may involve resolving a few conflicts.
So if both Kevin and I,
or any number of other
people working on our code,
touch the same file in
roughly the same place,
there may be a conflict where we
both tried to change the same thing,
and we need to resolve it.
We're going to go over that.
And finally, to make sure that everyone
else has your code,
you're going to need to do
a push if you're using Git,
because when you first commit,
it's only locally stored
on your local repository.
So let's go over what we were
looking at before with Kevin's code.
Now, Kevin finished pushing to the
remote at the end of his work.
So that means that our remote looks
more or less like this on the right.
It has a task branch as well as a
master that has a few changes as well.
Now, locally, since I wasn't up to date
with Kevin's code yet,
I just had the master from
before he was working on that.
If I want to start working on some
of the code he was just changing,
I'm going to need to do a pull.
That pull is going to get my master
branch up to date with all the
changes he made on the master branch.
But what if I'm interested in
Kevin's task branch where he was
adding those engineer photos?
In that case, I'm going to need to begin
tracking that branch.
That's going to give me a local copy.
I might also make a
few changes to master.
But I might also want
to pull Kevin's branch.
and bring that in,
and I need to track it to do that.
That will require me tracking his branch,
which will give me a
local copy of his branch.
Finally, to get all the changes
that I made on master,
as well as any changes that
Kevin made in his branch,
all into our mainline code,
ready to submit to the App Store,
we're going to need to do a merge.
That may involve
resolving some conflicts,
and we'll see how to do that.
Finally, since I want Kevin to finish
working on the code later today,
I have to do a push.
That's going to put it back up
on the server already merged.
So let's go over how we do that in Xcode.
And I'm going to open up the same
project that Kevin was working on.
So here's the My Best Friends project.
If we look at it,
we see that under the engineers,
I don't have the photos that
Kevin added to the repository.
And if we look at the controller,
my engineers still bark.
There's still an audio player here.
Now, I don't want that,
and Kevin already did that work.
So I'm going to go to File,
Source Control, Update and Pull.
Since we have both a Git and
Subversion repository,
we're actually going to be
doing both operations to get
our local code up to date.
Here we see those two repositories,
engineers,
which was our resource repository,
and My Best Friend,
which was our code repository.
I want all the updates possible,
so I'm going to leave both checked
and go ahead and press Choose.
Now, in this case,
we didn't have to see any of
those changes in a sheet like
you may have been familiar with
in previous versions of Xcode.
This is because if there are no
conflicts and you've already selected
that you want to update and pull,
we'll go ahead and make all those
changes and locally keep you up to date.
So there's no further
interaction necessary.
And if we go into the supporting files,
under Resources and Engineers,
we see that I still don't have
those engineer photos because
Kevin committed them on a branch.
And I also want to add a few myself.
So I have a few images here,
the other four engineers of our eight.
and I'm going to add them
to my project as well.
This way when we merge,
we'll have all eight images.
So I've added those, and I'm going to go
ahead and commit that.
I'm on master, but that's all right.
I'm just adding images.
I'm not touching any of our code,
so I don't need to
commit to a new branch.
So I'm going to add some engineer.
Photos.
And I'm just going to
commit those five files.
Of course, I've modified my project file
because I added photos to it.
So I've committed that.
Now I want to start looking
at some of Kevin's work.
So if we go to the organizer,
to the My Best Friend repository,
and to branches,
we see I only have master.
Just like we were looking
before on the slide,
since I only have a
master branch locally,
I don't have any of Kevin's changes.
If we look at the remotes, though,
since Kevin finished pushing his branch
up to the origin and created it there,
if we expand the origin remote,
we see that it actually has two branches,
master and new photos.
Now,
I already have a local copy of master,
but I want this new
photos branch as well.
So with it selected,
I'm going to press track branch.
I'm going to give it a
name and a starting point,
in this case, new photos,
and I'm going to keep the
name the same locally.
I don't want to switch to this branch,
since I don't want to do work on it.
I want to merge it into the
master branch to get it ready
for our App Store submission.
So I'm going to click Create.
And now, if we go back to Branches,
we see that I have two branches locally.
I'm all ready to do the merge.
So let's go back to my
workspace and go to File,
Source Control, Merge.
Now, in this case,
we still have two repositories,
the Engineer's and My Best Friend.
Since we didn't make
any changes in Engineer,
we never created branches for it,
since it's just our resources.
So in this case,
we only have branches in My Best Friend.
It's checked, we want to merge it in,
and we want to merge
this new Photos branch.
If we select it,
we see that's actually the
only branch I can merge in,
because there's only two branches,
and I'm already on master.
So let's go ahead and start the merge.
Now here we see the changes that are
going to happen during the merge.
We actually haven't done the merge yet.
I can simply push Cancel
if I want to back out.
[Transcript missing]
Of course,
I want all eight of these images.
So I want to add Kevin's
changes as well as my own.
And there's two different
ways I can do this.
I can either do a left
and then right merge,
in which case my changes, being the left,
are placed on top of Kevin's.
Or since Kevin committed first,
I'll go ahead and put the changes
that Kevin made before mine.
So in this case,
we see all the images are added.
We have eight images.
And we don't have to worry about missing
any of those images or doing all this
work over again that we've already done.
I still can't merge.
There must be another
conflict in this file.
In this case,
it's because we both added the
engineers to the workspace,
as well as set them up as
resources for our application.
So that's part of the build phase.
So just like before,
I'm going to select a
right and then left merge.
Here we see I again
have all eight images.
Now, I know that this file is no
longer in conflict because the
C image here has changed to a
blue icon instead of the red icon.
This means that the file was in conflict,
but those conflicts have been resolved.
I can also now push the Merge button.
It's no longer disabled.
So let's go ahead and do that merge.
And now, if I open up My Best Friends,
Supporting Files, Resources, Engineers,
we see that I have eight images there.
So we didn't have to throw out
my work just because Kevin also
made work that conflicted with it,
even in a project file.
So we don't even have to just worry --
so this can also happen in source files,
but you can even resolve project
files as non-binary files.
And I made a few changes to that
project file to resolve the conflict,
so I need to commit.
So I'm just resolving a conflict here.
If I commit that...
The branch has been
successfully merged in.
If I go to File, Source Control Push,
I can push all those changes of
merging the branch in up to the server,
and now our server has all the work
for Kevin to do during the beer bash.
All right, well, that is our project.
It has now got all the changes we want,
so let's go ahead and run it.
So just like before,
it's a matching game.
Let's try a few of these tiles.
Nope.
Anyone have any ideas of which tiles?
[Transcript missing]
There's Kerry, my manager.
Can't believe that
sweater still fits him.
There's Kevin.
Let's see if we can find... Nope.
Eight.
There's Mike.
So we've got Mike, again.
So we have two more.
Any ideas?
And then last we have Mirzai.
So there are our Xcode engineers.
And you can see what working
on Xcode does to you.
So we saw how you can work with
multiple repositories in Xcode,
even if they're a mixture
of Subversion and Git.
We've seen how you can resolve
conflicts in project files and not
necessarily treat them as binary files.
This, of course,
also works in your code files.
This can, of course,
happen during an update or a merge.
And finally,
we see now you push code so that
when you're working under Git,
that code is updated to whatever
remote you're currently connected to.
For more information,
please feel free to contact
Michael Jurwitz or use the
Apple Developer Forums.
Thank you.